A 54 year old patient who came to the clinic with elevated PSA levels, antibiotic treatment was recommended and a new analysis was carried out. After a result of 8 ng/ml, a prostate biopsy was recommended. The anatomopathological result was prostate adenocarcinoma Gleason 3+3= 6, confirming localised disease with a nuclear magnetic resonance. The patient's past history included previous appendectomy and inguinal herniorrhaphy.
Surgical treatment was proposed by means of radical prostatectomy, with access via the retropubic and extraperitoneal route using the Walsh technique, and the operation was carried out without incident.
During the first few days he presented with fever peaks of up to 38.1oC, symptoms of postoperative paralytic ileus with abundant vomiting on the second day, suspending the oral tolerance started on the first day.
On the fourth day, an abdominal X-ray was performed with the presence of gas in the colic frame and hydro-aerial levels in the right colon. Discharge was planned for the eighth day, given the satisfactory evolution.
On the seventh day she presented with pain in the right flank and reddening of the area with fever up to 39oC. A CT scan of the abdomen showed a liquid collection with abundant gas in the retroperitoneum, behind the second and third duodenal portions, accompanied by minimal pneumoperitoneum, as well as diverticulosis at the level of the descending colon and sigma. 

In view of these findings, the existence of duodenal perforation in the retroperitoneal portion and an infectious condition was suspected, and conservative treatment was chosen. Drainage was placed in the collection by ultrasound, obtaining cultures of the liquid, with growth of Staphylococcus haemolyticus and Candida albicans after a few days.
He remained on empirical antibiotic treatment during the entire admission, based on the cultures. A nasogastric tube was placed and oral feeding was replaced by parenteral feeding.
Follow-up of the collection was done by ultrasound, confirming intestinal sealing with the use of contrast in a gastroduodenal transit 30 days after placement of the drain, subsequently initiating oral tolerance. After good tolerance to ingestion and apyretic state, the drainage tube was removed and the patient was discharged 45 days after the operation.
At 26 months he remains asymptomatic and with undetectable PSA.


