We present the case of a 69-year-old female patient with a history of arterial hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, with end-stage chronic renal failure of unidentified aetiology, nephrogenic anaemia treated with erythropoiesis-stimulating factors and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Residual diuresis was around 200 ml. per day.
In 2004 she started renal replacement therapy with haemodialysis, and was subsequently placed on the waiting list for a renal transplant.
In January 2008 she received a cadaver donor kidney transplant in the right iliac fossa. The postoperative period was satisfactory except for two medical complications: development of diabetes mellitus requiring insulin administration and toxicity due to calcineurin inhibitors, which meant that the graft was initially non-functional. She was discharged in the fifth week after the operation with creatinine of 0.9 mg/dl and diuresis of around 2000 ml per day, receiving triple immunosuppressive therapy with prednisone, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil.
He was readmitted two weeks later for a condition consisting of significant oedema in the right lower limb and deterioration of renal function, with a decrease in diuresis and an increase in plasma creatinine concentration to 2 mg/dl. He was in good general condition, with fever and haemodynamic manifestations absent.
ECHO showed a large peri-graft collection, later studied with CT, extending from a level slightly more cranial than the aortic bifurcation to the rectum, causing compression of the iliac vessels and displacement of the bladder.

Percutaneous puncture and pig-tail placement to drain the collection is followed by a great improvement in symptoms and biochemical analysis of the fluid obtained (creatinine 1.67 mg/dl, Na 146 mEq/l, K 4.3 mEq/l) confirms the clinical suspicion of lymphocele.
Surgical treatment was indicated, and once infection had been ruled out, the lymphocele was marsupialised into the peritoneal cavity laparoscopically. The patient was discharged from surgery on the third postoperative day, with normal renal function and asymptomatic.
A follow-up CT scan at 14 days showed resolution of the lymphocele. 


