JL, a 46-year-old white female, consulted in February 2000 for facial asymmetry and difficulty using her lower prosthesis. She presented with an enlargement of the left parasymphyseal volume of 1 year's duration, of slow growth, which had stabilised in recent months, and she did not recall any history of trauma in the area. The oral examination revealed a complete upper and lower edentulous patient. In the left anterior mandibular area there was a mass expanding the vestibular and lingual cortex, covered by healthy mucosa in which telangectasias were observed. On palpation, the borders were clear, there was crepitation of the vestibular cortex and perforation of the lingual cortex. The objective and subjective neurological examination confirmed that there was no involvement of the inferior alveolar nerve, Vincent's sign (-).

Imaging examination revealed a radiolucent lesion with radiopaque areas within, unilocular, approximately 6 cm in greatest diameter, with defined boundaries and no corticalisation. The lesion extended from approximately the left premolar area to the right incisor area across the midline. It deformed and thinned the mandibular basal and displaced the inferior alveolar canal.

The protocol described above for the treatment of LCG was implemented. Two series of intralesional corticosteroids were performed. The first series was performed between March and April 2000 and the 2nd series started in September 2000, 5 months after the completion of the 1st series.
Fifteen months after the start of treatment, in May 2001, because the lesion had not disappeared and the bone cortices did not allow passage of the needle to attempt a new series of infiltrations, it was decided to perform surgical enucleation. Under general anaesthesia and through a buccal approach the lesion was accessed. Contrary to expectations, we did not find a bleeding, friable lesion corresponding to the macroscopic characteristics of LCGs, but rather an increase in bone volume without clear limits with the normal bone structure. Surgical remodelling of the lesion with drills was performed.

The patient is now clinically cured 39 months after initiation of treatment and 24 months after surgical remodelling, with no midfacial midline deviation and a lower alveolar ridge suitable for prosthetic use.


