LTR. Male patient, 32 years of age, with no medical history of interest, who came for consultation for implant treatment due to loss of the upper right central incisor. The radiological examination (orthopantomography) showed a residual root cyst at the level of the lost tooth. The patient was recommended the possibility of a treatment plan consisting of the removal of the cyst, bone regeneration of the bone defect and insertion of an implant in the same operating session. Subsequently, after a healing period, rehabilitation with an implant-supported cemented crown is carried out. The patient is informed of the surgical technique and the prosthodontic aspects (provisional and definitive prosthesis), timing (duration of treatment, number of visits) and follow-up (clinical and radiological check-ups), and of the possibility of complications and loss of implants. The patient authorises the implant treatment by means of an informed consent form.
Surgery
The day before surgery, the patient starts a preventive antibiotic regimen (amoxicillin + clavulanic acid) for one week, and in case of pain or inflammation, ibuprofen is prescribed. In addition, a daily chlorhexidine rinse is recommended for the first 30 days. The root cyst is removed with curettage and the implant bed is made, inserting a universal external connection implant with Nanoblast速 nanosurface (Galimplant, Sarria, Spain) submerged. The entire bone defect is filled with KeraOs速 tricalcium beta-phosphate (Keramat, Coru単a, Spain) and covered with a BioGide速 resorbable collagen membrane (Geistlich, Wolhusen, Switzerland). 8 months after implant insertion, the second surgery is performed with placement of a healing screw.

Prosthodontics
2 weeks after the second surgery, the implant was functionally loaded by placing the corresponding implant-supported prosthesis, a porcelain crown cemented on a machined hexagonal metal abutment.

Clinical follow-up
The time elapsed since the implant was functionally loaded was 12 months. There have been no complications during this period.


