The patient is a 61-year-old male. His pathological history included being allergic to clarithromycin, suffering from Barrett's oesophagus, essential tremor and chronic iron deficiency anaemia. His mother died after a renal carcinoma.
He underwent surgery in 2005 for renal carcinoma (p T3b Nx M1). At the time of diagnosis, he had bilateral adrenal metastases, metastatic lesions in the lungs and doubtful liver. He underwent right nephrectomy and left adrenalectomy. Subsequently, he started a clinical trial with interferon and bevacizumab with partial response of the metastatic lesions.
In 2010, following the appearance of a parotid tumour, an ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration puncture (FNA) was performed, compatible with metastasis of renal carcinoma.
To study the extent of the lesion, a cervical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was performed, which showed a tumour at the right parotid level involving both the superficial and deep lobes, measuring 2.6*3.4*3.4cm and compatible with a metastatic tumour.

The positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed a hypermetabolic lesion at the right parotid level compatible with a metastatic process.
After the study by our tumour committee, it was decided that the treatment of choice was radical parotidectomy due to the involvement of both parotid lobes.

The pathological anatomy revealed a mass with a morphological and immunohistochemical pattern compatible with metastasis of renal clear cell carcinoma. For this characterisation it was necessary to use cytokeratins, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), vimentin and cd10. In addition, the involvement of deep vascular and nerve structures was revealed and it was decided to perform postoperative radiotherapy.

Postoperatively, the patient experienced an episode of seroma at the level of the surgical wound, which resolved without complications. The postoperative evolution was favourable and the patient was discharged from the hospital, and the wounds were monitored in outpatient clinics.


