A 37-year-old man, with no medical history of interest, came to the emergency department under police custody from the airport due to suspicion of ingestion and intra-abdominal transport of drug wrappers (BP). During a scheduled flight, the patient had a convulsive episode and subsequently expelled three foreign bodies orally. On arrival, the patient presented: blood pressure 157/88 mmHg, heart rate 108 bpm, temperature 37°C and O2 saturation 94%. On examination, the abdomen was distended and matt to percussion, non-painful, with palpation of multiple foreign bodies in the mesogastrium and no peritonism. Neurological examination showed slightly mydriatic pupils, Glasgow 15 and no neurological focality. Abdominal radiography confirmed the presence of multiple intra-abdominal radio-opaque foreign bodies. The most relevant analytical findings were: leucocytes 14.1 x 109/l (neutrophils: 86%), creatinine 1.7 mg/dl and glucose 131 mg/dl. The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia. Urinalysis was positive for cocaine and its metabolites and benzodiazepines. Evacuation treatment with polyethylene glycol solution (Casenglicol®) and strict clinical observation was started. Two hours after admission, the patient experienced an episode of psychomotor agitation and tachycardia (120 beats/min), followed by a decreased level of consciousness, motor incoordination, mydriasis and tonic-clonic crisis, and was transferred to an intensive care unit. Clonazepam (1 mg) and diazepam (10 mg) e.v. were administered and it was decided to perform an emergency laparotomy. After accessing the abdominal cavity, multiple hard foreign bodies were palpated along the entire digestive tract. A transverse gastrotomy at the antral level, a longitudinal ileotomy 15 cm from the ileocaecal valve and two longitudinal colotomies (at the level of the transverse colon and sigma) were performed, with removal of multiple foreign bodies. An anterograde lavage of the rectum-sigma was performed with physiological saline solution through a colotomy, and another four packets were evacuated distal to the promontory. A total of 96 cylindrical foreign bodies of 5 cm in length with multilayer latex wrapping, smooth, compact and of apparently resistant manufacture were extracted. None of the packages showed visible signs of breakage. The patient was observed for 24 hours in an intensive care unit. Peristalsis and oral diet were started on the second postoperative day. The patient progressed well and was discharged from hospital on the fourth postoperative day.


