A 35-year-old woman, with no previous history of interest, presented with abdominal pain, diarrhoea and constitutional syndrome, which appeared a few weeks after her first birth; the previous pregnancy had passed without complications. She was studied in the Digestive System Section and was diagnosed with CD as she met the diagnostic criteria: 1) high titre of anti-transglutaminase antibodies; and 2) intestinal biopsy with villous atrophy in the duodenum and crypt hyperplasia. Shortly after the aforementioned clinical manifestations, she presented with polyarthralgia of medium-sized joints, predominantly in the carpus and tarsus, together with paraesthesia and skin lesions with pruritic micropapules. She was referred to the nephrology department for detecting proteinuria of +++. Physical examination: blood pressure 104/76 mmHg, BMI 27, minimal oedema in the lower limbs and papules on the elbows and arms. Blood tests: normal haemogram and coagulation, creatinine 0.9 mg/dl, total cholesterol 238 mg/dl, triglycerides 104 mg/dl, total protein 6.5 g/dl and albumin 3.6 g/dl. In the immunological study: ANA, anti-DNA, ANCAS, C3, C4, anticardiolipin antibodies, lupus anticoagulant and cryoglobulins were negative or normal. Serology against HBV, HCV and HIV negative. Anti-tissue transglutaminase IgA antibodies positive to titre 800 U/ml (normal <7 U/ml). Urine: protein 4.4 g/day and sediment with 5 red blood cells per field. Renal ultrasound was normal. Given the persistence of nephrotic proteinuria for several weeks, a percutaneous renal biopsy was performed, the result of which was stage 2 NM, without vascular or interstitial lesions. He received treatment with a gluten-free diet and other conservative measures with statin, aspirin at antiplatelet doses, enalapril and losartan, with no initial response. However, after 12 months of follow-up, simultaneous negativation of anti-transglutaminase antibodies and complete remission of proteinuria was observed, as shown in figure 1. During this time, there were no other signs of systemic disease, except for an increase in TSH levels of 6.6 µU/ml, with T4l of 1.1 ng/dl and negative anti-thyroglobulin and anti-microsomal antibodies.


