Patient Y. V. L., 30 years old. Eight years ago she had her first child; pregnancy and delivery were uncomplicated.
Three years ago, she had an unwanted pregnancy terminated by endometrial curettage, at which time she was fitted with a copper T-cup as a method of contraception. Approximately one year later, she began to present with irritative urinary symptoms, consisting of postvoid urethral burning, urethral and lower abdominal pain, frequency of urination and urinary urgency. She attended medical consultation, Escherichia coli was detected in urine cultures and she was treated with several courses of different antibiotics with the diagnosis of infectious cystitis. The previous symptoms subsided, but within weeks of completing the aforementioned treatments, they returned, with greater intensity. Finally, sudden interruption of the urinary stream and dyspareunia were added to the symptoms described above.
In the midst of this situation, the patient became pregnant again, presumably with the copper T placed in utero, and decided to carry to term. During the nine months of gestation, the above-mentioned urinary symptoms continued in a similar form and intensity. She gave birth without difficulty, this time a boy.
Two months after the birth, and due to the persistence of the urinary symptoms, she decided to go to the urology clinic. Ultrasound of the urinary tract was ordered and it was reported that both kidneys were normal in position and morphology and that there was a large lithiasis in the bladder, approximately five centimetres in diameter, which moved with changes in the patient's position. An antero-posterior X-ray of the pelvis was performed, showing the presence of a lithiasis measuring approximately five by three centimetres in size, in the projection of the small pelvis and with a copper T inside it.

It was decided to perform a suprapubic cystolithotomy. During the cystolithotomy, the bladder mucosa was found to be very erythematous and bleeding easily. The lithiasis, located at the bottom of the bladder, was fragmented during the extraction manoeuvre with the forceps, revealing the copper T with lithiasic incrustations inside. The foreign body was then stripped of its lining and was found to be intact.

The patient was maintained with a urethral catheter for two weeks, and was treated with oral Ciprofloxacin, 500 milligrams every 12 hours for three weeks. The evolution was satisfactory and total cessation of symptoms was achieved.


