FP, a 22-year-old black woman, who consulted in November 2000, due to facial asymmetry, pain and a sensation of crepitus at the left infraorbital level. She presented a tumour of progressive growth in the left hemimaxillary region of 5 months of evolution. On facial examination, an increase in volume was observed in the left infraorbital region, which markedly raised the lower eyelid, making it difficult for the patient to look down and to the right. There was deformation of the nasal pyramid and obstruction of the left nostril due to reduced permeability as a result of the elevation of the nasal floor and deformation of the nasal intersinus septum.

The patient did not present ocular alterations, she reported that she felt the lesion growing and that she presented anterior nasal corrsion which was not objectified.
The oral examination showed a stable and repeatable occlusion, caries in tooth 24 and mobility and displacement of tooth 22. A large mass of diffuse limits, covered by healthy and erythematous mucosa, deformed the left upper labial vestibule and the palatal vault. On palpation, the lesion had crepitant and soft areas, was asymptomatic, and had clear boundaries.
Orthopantomography showed a unilocular homogeneous radiolucent mass of approximately 5.5 cm in greatest diameter, located in a shape corresponding to a lesion in a maxillary globular position20 , displacing the roots of teeth 22 and 23 and with rhizolysis of both roots. It also displaced the maxillary sinus and reached the infraorbital rim, with clear boundaries but no corticalisation.
In the CT scan, axial and coronal slices showed a radiolucent mass with trabeculations inside, extending from the alveolar ridge to the infraorbital rim, raising the left floor and destroying the intersinuso-nasal wall at the bottom, coming into contact with the nasal septum. It expanded and thinned the cortices and in some areas perforated them.

The protocol described above for the treatment of GCL was implemented. A series of infiltrations were performed between December 2000 and January 2001. At the end of this period, the patient informed that she was pregnant and all treatment was suspended until the end of the pregnancy.
In October 2001, almost a month after delivery, the patient returned, reporting that she no longer felt the crepitus. On physical examination the lesion was more localised and on palpation the entire lesion was bony in consistency.
On CT scan, axial and coronal slices showed an image which, unlike the lesion on the initial CT scans, was radiopaque with a radiolucent central nucleus. Its boundaries were indistinguishable from healthy bone.

In view of these findings, 11 months after the start of treatment, it was decided to perform surgical enucleation. Under general anaesthesia and through a buccal approach, the lesion was accessed. As in case 1, an increase in bone volume was found without clear boundaries with the normal bone structure. Surgical remodelling of the lesion was performed with drills. It was necessary to reshape the infraorbital rim and the piriform notch.

Clinically and radiographically, at 22 months follow-up there is no evidence of residual lesion or recurrence. Root canal treatment was not performed on the 22nd and 23rd teeth, which are healthy. Currently, the patient is clinically cured 28 months after the start of treatment and 17 months after surgical remodelling.


