An 80-year-old man with a history of TURP 3 years earlier consulted for pollakiuria, hypogastric pain and fever of 48 hours' evolution one month after undergoing surgery for incarcerated right inguinal hernia. On questioning, he reported a progressive worsening of his urinary stream in recent months. Physical examination revealed bladder ballooning, minimal serous discharge from the inguinal wound and painful induration of the penile base.
A cystostomy catheter was placed due to the impossibility of urethral catheterisation, and with blood tests showing leukocytosis with a left shift and urine sediment positive for gram-negative bacilli, he was admitted for intravenous antibiotic treatment and study.
After presenting clinical and analytical improvement, an abdominal ultrasound was performed, which showed a subcicatricial seroma at the right inguinal level and cystography by cystostomy catheter where an extravasation was observed in the proximal penile urethra.

Once the febrile UTI was treated with a positive urine culture for multisensitive E.coli, the patient was discharged. At the follow-up visit, the patient reported significant perineal pain that he had been treating with anti-inflammatory drugs and provided the anatomo-pathological report from the surgery department where he had undergone surgery for inguinal hernia, stating that the resected material was a moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma lymphadenopathy. At that time, the patient was diagnosed as a possible squamous cell carcinoma of the urethra with inguinal adenopathy and an extension study was performed.
Pelvic MRI showed a 3 cm collection between the urethra and corpora cavernosa as well as right inguinal lymphadenopathy.

Thoracic-abdominal CT scan showed a single subpleural lesion in the upper lobe of the right lung suggestive of metastasis, with no adenopathy.
The patient was admitted for poor control of perineal pain and the appearance of several nodular skin lesions on the pubis and right thigh.

Biopsy of one of these lesions was positive for squamous cell carcinoma.
The patient underwent 6 cycles of palliative polychemotherapy with cisplatin + 5-fluorouracil (CDDP 137 mg-5FU 6839 mg) with good tolerance and good initial clinical response with improvement of asthenia, partial regression of the lethargy and disappearance of the pulmonary lesion. One month after the end of chemotherapy, he presented early progression of the disease with the appearance of a greater number of skin lesions. She then underwent palliative radiotherapy, achieving better control of perineal pain and little response of the lethal lesions. She is currently being treated with morphine and monitored by a palliative care team at home, 9 months after the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma.


