A 28-year-old male patient suffered blunt trauma to his left eye during an assault. In the initial emergency examination, a significant reduction in VA was observed in this eye due to hyphema, the IOP was 8 mmHg and Berlin oedema was seen in the ocular fundus. The patient was treated with relative rest, cycloplegia, topical and systemic corticosteroids. After resorption of the hyphema, VA improved to 1, but IOP was 4 mmHg, so treatment was continued with restriction of physical effort, atropine 1% and topical corticosteroids, despite which ocular hypotony persisted (4-6 mmHg), VA was reduced to 0.4 and retinochoroidal folds and papillary oedema developed. The discontinuation of topical corticosteroids did not improve the clinical picture either.
The gonioscopic study showed a grade IV open angle without other alterations. Ten months after the trauma, an ultrasound biomicroscopy (UBM) was performed, which revealed a tear of the iris root in the nasal area with 360° ciliochoroidal detachment. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) showed foveal thickening (326 microns).

Given the lack of response to conservative treatment, it was decided to perform a transscleral contact diode laser cyclopexy using the G probe of the Oculight SLx diode laser (Iris Medical Instruments, Mountain View, California). The procedure was performed under retrobulbar anaesthesia and 2 rows of 10 impacts each (power 3 watts, exposure time 3 seconds) were applied over the area of cyclodialysis described with the BMU.
In the first 24 hours no changes in VA or IOP were observed, but from one week onwards a gradual rise in IOP was observed, reaching 12 mmHg by the 6th month, which was accompanied by improvement in VA and progressive reduction in papilla oedema, chorioretinal folds and foveal thickness. BMU showed closure of the cyclodialysis by means of a peripheral anterior synechia and disappearance of the choroidal detachment, justifying normalisation of IOP. At one year follow-up VA was 1 and IOP 14 mmHg.


