This is a 73 year old female patient who came for gynaecological consultation due to metrorrhagia. On examination, no gynaecological pathology was observed and she was referred to the urology department for examination. The patient has a personal history of previous hysterectomy 20 years ago for leiomyomas, and has been consulting a urologist for four years due to pain, haematuria and repeated urinary tract infections, having undergone a urological examination in the first consultations, which included cystoscopy with multiple biopsy with the anatomopathological result of inflammation and urothelial dysplasia. Subsequently, she underwent periodic check-ups, including cytology and control cystoscopies with cold biopsy, with no evidence of neoplasia.
When she was referred by the gynaecology department, an ultrasound study was performed in which a hypoechoic image was observed adjacent to the bladder, and a CT scan was recommended. The pelvic CT scan showed an oval tumour, with well-defined contours, soft tissue density, slightly heterogeneous, with a maximum diameter of about 5 cm, located adjacent to the left anterior margin of the bladder without communication with the bladder lumen, presenting poorly defined margins with apparent infiltration of the perivesical fat, and which on the anterior and inferior margin presents a linear image of soft tissue density that appears to contact the abdominal wall.

With the diagnosis of a prevesical mass suspicious of a desmoid cyst or persistent urachal tumour, surgery was performed. A median laparotomy incision was performed with resection of the prevesical neoplastic process associated with partial cystectomy.
Macroscopic examination of the specimen revealed an oval formation of elastic consistency measuring 8x4 cm, which, when cut, appeared to correspond to a cystic formation filled with greyish, friable material. Microscopic examination shows that the wall of the cavity is made up of fibromuscular tissue and from it a grade III papillary neoplasm of transitional epithelium can be observed, which presents a fundamentally exophytic growth towards the lumen of the duct, without infiltrating the whole of the wall. The tumour infiltrates the muscular wall of the bladder, included in one of the resection ends, without reaching the mucosa, and no urothelial neoplasia is observed in the bladder lining epithelium.

The patient was discharged from hospital and remains asymptomatic at the present time.


